Many creatures on Earth have a remarkable ability.
One that is beautiful and amazing.
The ability to emit light, also known as bioluminescence.
But why do some living things glow?
Some animals glow to be noticed.
Fireflies combine chemicals to create light,
to catch the eye of a prospective mate.
Every species flashes its own unique pattern.
Some even synchronize their flashes.
While fireflies glow to stand out,
some animals glow to disappear.
At about three centimeters long,
Bobtail squid are good at hiding.
But when they come out to feed at night,
they're vulnerable.
By the light of the moon and stars,
they're still a white could be seen by predators below.
So they illuminate their underside
to match the light from above
and effectively vanish.
A Bobtail squid alone produces no light.
So how does it glow?
After the squid hatches,
a unique bacteria colonizes its undeveloped light organ
and switches on genes in the squid
that cause the light organ to finish growing.
The bacteria live in the organ
and produce light for the squid.
The squid cannot grow a working light organ
if it never meets the bacteria
and no other bacteria can inhabit this organ.
This ability of some living things to emit light
is more than just beautiful.
It's a marvel of energy efficiency.
No man-made source of light
can match the energy efficiency of creatures that glow.
But a process is elegant and efficient as this
is not as simple as lighting a match.
Both fireflies and Bobtail squid
grow complex organs that include a reflector,
a lens, and a filter,
just like man-made lighting.
All over our planet,
there are many organisms that emit light,
such as fungi, insects,
jellyfish, squid,
and fish.
And every species uses a different combination of chemicals
to produce light.
What do you think?
Did the ability to produce light from life evolve
or was it designed?